---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1: UI Basics Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-02-06
labels:
  - E1
  - WODs
---
Before I started recording my screencast for Browser History 1, I made sure I went through the readings, and I also watched the example screencast from professor Port so I can get an idea of how I should narrate while coding my HTML. Due to all the preparations I have done, my Browser History 1 WOD went well with no trouble, taking me four times to get a satisfying screencast recording. Since I have a little bit of coding experience in HTML, I understand some of the basics. Nevertheless, I learned more about HTML and how to use CSS because of the readings, which I think is very important and helpful if you ever want to learn how to make a webpage and understand how to use each tag effectively. My advice is before you start coding, it is essential to plan out what and how you want to execute your coding, so it does not become messy during the process.
Browser History 2 was creating a sheet style for the webpage we have created previously to improve the presentation where we changed the fonts, color, margin, and background. I felt like this WOD was much easier compared to BH1 WOD because it felt like I was doing my lab 2 again. Luckily it only took two tries to get in Rx time because I knew exactly what was needed to do. At the same time, I think I still learned a lot from doing BH2 because I learned how to link my style sheet so my styles would be applied to the HTML. I feel like CSS is very fun to learn and is important because if you can learn more about CSS, you can play with the page layout, adjust colors and fonts any way you want that meets your satisfaction.
Out of all the three WODs for this project, I thought Browser History 3 was the hardest. For this WOD, we had to change the web page format and create a navigation bar and correctly align the three sections within a margin. To prepare myself before recording the screencast, I tried doing some experiments on my own to see what works and what doesn’t. Unfortunately, dividing the paragraphs into three sections was the most complicated process in this project. No matter what I tried, the middle column did not align very well with the other two columns. In the end, I had to resort myself to watch the example screencast to get an idea of how exactly it should be done. After practicing a couple more, I was able to complete my recording in one try. When completing the WOD, I learned how to divide my paragraphs into sections and the usefulness of padding. My best advice from this WOD is that it is okay to rely on the resources provided to help your project, but you should always try it on your own first, and if you are stuck on something, you can check your answers to see what is right and what is wrong to learn from your mistakes.
