---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E3 - Preparing for WODs Essay
date: 2020-09-28
labels:
  - E3
  - WODs
---
For <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-invoice1.html">Invoice1</a> I have created a sales receipt that had five different items. I included a price and quantity per item. By combining these two, I made an expression and variable to compute my subtotal and grand total. For Invoice1, I took 18 min, which is within the Rx time. To achieve an Rx time, I often like to practice on my own first by creating a test file, and once I think it looks good, I would usually start recording. However, I believe this WOD felt more challenging than the BrowserHistory WODs I have worked on recently. The most challenging part of this WOD was creating a table. When working on my test file, I started watching the example screencast to see how it was done and noticed how copying the table from the page source would make it work. After figuring that out, I went ahead and tried to do the same thing. After I got that out of the way, everything felt much easier since going through the readings is a great source to use when you want to understand what to do and how to execute specific things. I noticed that copy and pasting could make things easier. Still, I also think that this can become a bad habit because copying codes to your file can mean that you do not understand what you are pasting, and sometimes the code you copied and pasted can be changed to a much nicer code. 

When preparing for this WOD, I did the same thing as I did with my previous WODs. I like to create a test file first and start working on the project before recording my screencast. If I do this, I can explain each of my steps well since I understand what  I am doing. However, during my WOD, I have made a mistake towards the end of my screencast by misspelling my <script> tag. Luckily this wasn't a problem since I found this error towards the end at the bottom of my code. Still, it is always essential to always catch these kinds of errors as soon as possible because it will become tough for you to find errors if it exists in the beginning. For future WODs, to reduce these kinds of errors, it is best to take your time and try not to rush through it, so you do not make any careless errors. 
