---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 - Progress in Programming Report
date: 2020-11-08
labels:
  - E4
  - ITM352
---
**My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:**
I agree that my programming has greatly improved because I had very little understanding of JavaScript and HTML at the beginning of this semester. However, after about 11 weeks into this course, I managed to complete Assignment 1, which I think was a tough assignment if I hadn't taken this course. I also feel that now I understand more about what each code in both JS and HTML, in terms of what they do and their purpose when creating a webpage. 

**I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:**
I agree that I need to work on several things to improve my programming skills. Although I feel like I am managing to keep up in class, I feel like there are times where I am unable to understand a few things in class. To not feel like that, I need to put in more effort because programming is a lot of work and will always be frustrating when things are not working. 

**I can do the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first.**
I agree and disagree that I can do the WODs without the screencast. There have been times when I could do some WODs without the screencast solution (i.e., Invoice 3), and I believe that doing a WOD without the solution means that I fully understand what is going on in class. However, I enjoy watching the screencast solution because Professor Port would often explain how he creates his WODs step by step, and I think it is very good to watch. Also, since I am not very confident in my skills, the screencast solutions allow me to ensure that I do things properly. So the WODs screencast solutions have been a helpful source that I appreciate we have. 

**The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence.**
I definitely agree that the labs have helped me learn, and I can complete them to an extent. Labs are very helpful because we are always doing hands-on work on the topic we work on for that week. It also enables us to be more engaging in class due to the pick on program with the material we are working on. The labs can be challenging, but I think it has been easy to follow along due to instructions being very clear. Without these labs, I would've been unable to complete some of the WODs assigned to us. 

**I feel ready I am ready to work on the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications like Assignment 1).**
I'm afraid I personally have to disagree that I am ready to work on the next stage due to not being confident in my skills and knowledge. However, I do understand that building up experience is always important to level up. Luckily, I believe that the information and sources provided for us are very helpful and give better guidance when we are having trouble. 

**I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:**
I agree that there are things in class that can be improved to help my learning. However, I also feel that due to the ongoing pandemic that we are facing and classes being online, it is inevitable. Usually, I would say that I am a visual learner. However, when it comes to programming since it is challenging and requires a lot of effort to learn, I feel in-person classes can be much better since it allows us to become more disciplined and motivated to stay on task. It is also hard because, even if we have the pick on program, there isn't much real-time exchange of ideas, feedback, and discussions with the professors in and outside of class. 
In terms of improvements for myself, I feel like I should be asking questions or ask for help outside of class because there have been times where I felt like I did not understand something, and not do anything about it. So I feel like if I am able to ask for help outside of class, then I should also be more raedy than I currently am to work on the next stage of complexity in programming. 

**These are things that work really well for my learning in this class:**
I really think that working on the WODs and watching the screencast has been helpful for my learning in this class. For the screencast, I believe that reading the texts for the materials may sometimes be confusing. However, with screencasts that Professor Port has provided us, it has helped me understand and fully grasp the information provided.  
