---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5 - Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay
date: 2020-11-29
labels:
  - E5
  - Assignment 2
  - ITM352
---
**Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details**

For <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2.html">Assignment 2</a> we were asked to expand our previous Assignment 1 by creating a login page and registration page before checking out. By doing so, this allowed users to register an account with their Name, Email, and Password in order to have their own personalized shopping cart. 

**What did you learn from this assignment?**

From Assignment 2, I was able to learn more about what a query string is, and essentially have users to have their own login information created so they can save their shopping cart with their product amount that they have chosen in the products page. 

**Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).**

I did not work with a partner. 

**How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?**

I did not ask for help for Assignment 2. However, I felt like I needed help on getting the created users shopping cart to pass through all the pages till the invoice page. I also felt like I neede help in cleaning up my code overall, including the codes from Assignment 1. 

**How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?**

Assignment 2 was personally harder than Assignment 1 because I had to make sure that we can first create a login information for the user, and make sure that the users shopping cart will be shown whenever they try to login. Compared to Assignment 1, where I had to only set up my e-Commerce website. 

**Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging**

20% - Thinking about how to do something, 45% - Writing code, 35% - Testing and Debugging

**Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?**

I think I thought that making my login page and registration page worked very well. I think that went the smoothest out of all of the requirements needed to complete the assignment. The one thing that did not work well was actually getting the personalized shopping cart to work. It was very hard for me to get my registered user information to have the shopping cart they have created prior to creating an account on the invoice page. 

**If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?**

If I could go back in time and do things differently, I should've started sooner and asked for help when I needed it. My responsibility was very poor for Assignment 2. 
